---
pubDate: 2024-08-04
author: Eddy
title: Simplify - start
description: "Fresh start on this blog for a fresh start in life"
image:
  url: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1618580747643-7ecc7240ba4e?q=80&w=2787&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["Simplify"]
---

Hi there!

I'm starting my first blog!

It is quite possible that no one besides myself will ever read this blog, but who cares? It is out there, and that kind of means something to me. 

## The big why

It is a very legitimate question, why on earth did I started this blog? After all, it puts my personal information out there in the world, which seems very odd considering, that otherwise, I try to hide as much of my personal information from the big data brokers out there. But on the other hand, if you - dear reader - grew up in the internet era yourself, it might not even be a question to you. That is, because my answer will probably not be very interesting or special. I want to write the blog for the same set of reasons as likely everyone who has ever started a blog, a YouTube channel, or something like that. They want to learn new skills and create something, and though the public aspect of the blog create some responsibility for themselves, to keep on writing the blog and act in line with what they publicly proclaim. 

There  is probably more to say on the question of why I started this blog, but this is probably neither of interest to you, nor really of interest to myself. Thus, I will just start with the real content of the first post. 

## Simple Life, or Productivity for Minimalists. 

Almost ten years ago, I saw the first videos about minimalism. It was the time when the modern connotation of "minimalism" in the sense of a specific lifestyle popularized by leading figures like Marie Kondo and Matt D'Avella emerged. 
From the many ideologies I got enthusiastic about and dismissed again throughout the years, minimalism has always stuck with me. There have been more and less extreme phases for me through the years, but the basic premises for me always felt so right, in line with my persona, and, most importantly, actually useful. 
I love to optimize spaces and systems. That's probably just a big personality trait of mine. For spaces, it seems clear to me, that keeping them as minimal as possible, does not only make me feel much better, but also makes them just so much easier to maintain. But after you only have one small box for clothes and lived out of your hand luggage for your semester abroad, there is only so much you can reduce and organize in the surrounding spaces. And after all, having a nice minimalist room in itself is really quite irrelevant. Obviously, it could have a great impact on other parts of your life, but just a clean room in itself is nothing I particularly care about. So long story short, what I do care about is not how my apartment looks, but how I spend my time on earth. Since minimalism really helped me a lot over the years and I always came back to it, I want to try how I can use the same principles and apply them to what truly matters to me: My life. 

So let my optimizing brain start doing its work.


<!-- ## The Problem

In order to solve any problem, one has to describe the status quo or the problem as clearely as possible. 
While there surely is a history my productivity problems, I will try to concentrate on the current situation for the analysis. 
Right now, my biggest problem is, that I do all sorts of things, but mostly not the ones that are the currently most important tasks for myself. I am a classical procrastinator. 
One could argue, that even writing that blog is a way of procrastinating from just doing the tasks I really need to do. But I am of the strong conviction, that time invested in making a task more effektive is almost allway time well spend. And since I am planing to live and do stuff - well for the rest of my life, I right now feel more like tackeling the problem rather than procrastinating away from it. So thats good! 
To proceed, here - in no particular order - are some points, why, right now, I am not doing the tasks, that in clear moments seem the most important to me: 

-  -->