---
pubDate: 2024-08-07
author: Eddy
title: Minimalism in a Relationship
description: "How to live a calm and minimalist live when your not alone"
image:
  url: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1600988718561-b2dde28f8a05?q=80&w=2835&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["Simplify"]
---

Living a calm mindfull live doing only the things that matter most to you, isn't exactly a trivial task if you live by yourself. However, things get much more complicated, when you share your live and your flat with another person. 

First of all: I will start with the premise, that it is not your partners fault. In my case, it is very clear. I am lucky enough to live with a diligent, quite tidy and frugal partner, that has her live together much more than I do. But more importantly: It is just a very bad idea to blame or try to change your partner. After all, it is very easy to be a good minimalist while being a bad spouse or partner. And I certainly love my fiance way to much to even think about risking the fortune that I have to get to spend my live with her. 

So I see three possible ways to cope with the additional challenges of living a minimalist live when your not alone. 
1. Blame your partner for every physical and mental clutter and thus ensure that you soon live alone again. 
2. Just give up on minimalism all together. 
3. Double down on your minimalism and try to find smart solutions to feel calm and orderly with zero additional effort for your partner. 


Unsurprisingly, I would advocate for option three. 

How this could look in concrete, we can see in three different areas. 

## Minimalist Home

To me, it is important to have my space free from clutter and relatively clean. It helps me to keep my mind at rest and feel comfortable. 
Now we can't decide on how much stuff our partner owns, brings home or declutteres. It might be very important to us, to own less stuff, but your partner can have very different priorities. They might like to have a big selection of choices, when deciding what to ware or simply can't bother to go through their stuff all the time to decide what to sort out. 

So to dictate your partner, how much stuff they can have is not a good idea. But what does work is to create systems that make it as easy for them to keep your shared spaces free of clutter than to leave their stuff lying around. 

